# Skin-Cancer-Classification

# Abstract
In cancer, there are over 200 different forms. Out of 200, melanoma is the deadliest form of skin cancer. The diagnostic procedure for melanoma starts with clinical screening, followed by dermoscopic analysis and histopathological examination. Melanoma skin cancer is highly curable if it gets identified at the early stages. The first step of Melanoma skin cancer diagnosis is to conduct a visual examination of the skin's affected area. Dermatologists take the dermatoscopic images of the skin lesions by the high-speed camera, which have an accuracy of 65-80% in the melanoma diagnosis without any additional technical support. With further visual examination by cancer treatment specialists and dermatoscopic images, the overall prediction rate of melanoma diagnosis raised to 75-84% accuracy. The project aims to build an automated classification system based on image processing techniques to classify skin cancer using skin lesions images.

# Introduction and Background
Among all the skin cancer type, melanoma is the least common skin cancer, but it is responsible for **75%** of death [SIIM-ISIC Melanoma Classification, 2020](https://www.kaggle.com/c/siim-isic-melanoma-classification). Being a less common skin cancer type but is spread very quickly to other body parts if not diagnosed early. The **International Skin Imaging Collaboration (ISIC)** is facilitating skin images to reduce melanoma mortality. Melanoma can be cured if diagnosed and treated in the early stages. Digital skin lesion images can be used to make a teledermatology automated diagnosis system that can support clinical decision.

Currently, deep learning has revolutionised the future as it can solve complex problems. The motivation is to develop a solution that can help dermatologists better support their diagnostic accuracy by ensembling contextual images and patient-level information, reducing the variance of predictions from the model.

## Purpose
*The first step to identify whether the skin lesion is malignant or benign for a dermatologist is to do a skin biopsy. In the skin biopsy, the dermatologist takes some part of the skin lesion and examines it under the microscope. The current process takes almost a week or more, starting from getting a dermatologist appointment to getting a biopsy report. This project aims to shorten the current gap to just a couple of days by providing the predictive model using **Computer-Aided Diagnosis (CAD)**. The approach uses **Convolutional Neural Network (CNN)** to classify nine types of skin cancer from outlier lesions images. This reduction of a gap has the opportunity to impact millions of people positively.*
